THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HAS A NINE PERSON
VOLUNTEER BOARD NOMINATED BY
THE MAYOR AND APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT AND THE
APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IS
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE THREE EIGHT ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO
SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
>> WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO PROVE THAT APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT IN A
TIMELY BASIS.
ROLL CALL CANDICE BREYER
I AM
HERE TO GRANT I AM HERE DAVE
ALREADY HERE CHRIS MADIGAN HERE
SADIR CLERK WHITNEY HERE
MCDANIEL DANIEL HERE.
DERMO ECKMANN HERE.
CHRISTINA LUSSAC HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY COMMENTS ON THE
AGENDA?
I WILL NOTE THAT THE SECOND
ITEM ON OUR AGENDA TONIGHT
PETITION ZIBA TWENTY THREE ZERO
ZERO TWO THREE FOUR SIXTEEN
LONG SHORE DRIVE HAS BEEN
WITHDRAWN BY THE PETITIONER.
SO WE WILL NOT BE HEARING THAT
CASE TONIGHT OR TAKING ANY
ACTION ON THAT IF THERE IS
ANYONE WHO WAS HERE TO SPEAK ON
THAT OR WHO IS ACCESSING
REMOTELY THAT WANTED TO SPEAK
ON THAT, YOU OF COURSE ARE
WELCOME TO STILL DO TO DO SO.
BUT THAT PETITION HAS BEEN
WITHDRAWN ALSO I'LL KNOW
BRIEFLY THAT OUR FIRST PETITION
ZIBA TWENTY THREE ZERO ZERO TWO
ONE SEVEN HUNDRED PAULINE
BOULEVARD I WILL NEED TO RECUSE
MYSELF BECAUSE OF A CONFLICT
OF INTEREST.
SO TODD WILL BE TAKING OVER THE
REINS FOR THAT ONE.
THERE'S NO OTHER COMMENTS TO
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA.
THANK YOU MY SUPPORT.
THANK YOU, CHRIS.
ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE AUGUST
TWENTY THIRD TWENTY TWENTY
THREE ZIBA MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS ON THOSE
MINUTES IF NOT I HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THOSE MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
GREAT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU, CHRIS.
ALL IN FAVOR OF POST.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
PETITIONS ZIBA TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO ONE SEVEN
HUNDRED PAULINE BOULEVARD.
>> I'M GOING TO STEP OUT.
>> TODD CAN TAKE OVER THE
MINUTE
.
THANK YOU, JOE
SO CALLING THE FIRST ITEM
OF BUSINESS SEVEN HUNDRED
PAULINE BOULEVARD ZIBA NUMBER
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO ONE.
>> WE WILL HEAR FROM JOHN
BARRETT.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN BARRETT.
I'M THE ZONING COORDINATOR FOR
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
DAN THOMAS, PROPERTY OWNER IS
REQUESTING VARIANCES OF TWO
INCHES FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
SIXTEEN POINT SIX SUBSECTION
TWO D ACCESSORY USERS AND
STRUCTURES TO ALLOW AN EXISTING
GARAGE ADDITION TO BE TWO FEET
TEN INCHES FROM THE SIDE LOT
LINE AND A TWO HUNDRED NINETY
SQUARE FOOT VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT SIX SUBSECTION TO THE AS
WELL TO ALLOW THE ATTACHED
GARAGE ADDITION TO EXCEED THE
ALLOWED THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
REAR SETBACK AREA WITH A
STRUCTURE.
A THIRD VARIANCE OF TEN FEET IS
BEING REQUESTED FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT TO
ALLOW AN EXISTING DEBT TO
ENCROACH INTO THE FRONT THAT
BACK.
THE VARIANCES WOULD ALLOW THE
GARAGE EDITION TO BE USED AS AN
PROVED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED R1 D
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
THE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS
LOCATED AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF PAULENE BOULEVARD AND FIFTH
STREET AND THE ALLMENDINGER
HEIGHTS NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
FORTY AND IS APPROXIMATELY
SEVENTY SEVEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY
SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE PROPERTY RECEIVED A
BUILDING PERMIT IN NOVEMBER SIX
NINETEEN SIXTY SEVEN FOR A FLAT
ROOF ADDITION TO THE EXISTING
DETACHED GARAGE FOR A WORKSHOP.
THE ADDITION OF APPROXIMATELY
FOUR HUNDRED SIXTY EIGHT SQUARE
FEET IN AREA.
THE ADDITION HAS BEEN CONVERTED
TO HABITABLE SPACE THAT
REQUIRES VARIANCES TO MAKE THE
ADDITIONS CONFORMING FOR
SETBACKS AND THE ALLOWABLE
IMPERVIOUS AREA EXCEEDING THE
MAXIMUM THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
MAXIMUM IN THE REAR YARD.
THE EXTERIOR DECK SERVES AS AN
AMENITY AREA TO THE PROPOSED
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AND
WILL NOT BE ALTERED.
THERE ARE NO PROPOSED CHANGES
TO THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
STRUCTURE.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN
YELLOW AS I STATED IS AT THE
CORNER OF PAULENE AND FIFTH
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET FROM
ALLMENDINGER PARK.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
PHOTOS SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
AND YOU CAN SEE THE DETACHED
GARAGE, THE GABLED ROOF, THE
ORIGINAL STRUCTURE AND THEN THE
FLAT ROOF AS I MENTIONED
ADDITION AND THE PROXIMITY TO
THE SIDE PLOT LINE IS THE
DISTANCE IS TWO FEET TEN INCHES
THAT TWO INCH VARIANCE REQUEST
ON THAT AND THEN AS YOU CAN
TELL, THE STRUCTURE EXCEEDS THE
ALLOWABLE THIRTY FIVE IN THE
BACK TWENTY FEET OF THE REAR
YARD.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT IS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE THE HATCHED IN AREA IS THE
REAR YARD SET BACK AT TWENTY
FEET AND THIS IS THE PORTION
THAT'S IN THE EXIT THE THIRTY
FIVE PERCENT YOU ALSO HAVE THE
TWELVE AND A HALF FOOT BY 12
FOOT DECK ENCROACH INTO THE
FRONT STEP BACK.
IT SHOWS THAT IT'S SEVEN POINT
TWO FEET FROM THE FRONT LINE
AND THEN YOU HAVE THE TEN TWO
FEET TEN INCH SET BACK WITH
THIS SIDE.
WE'RE HERE IN THIS BACK CORNER
.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS A FLOOR
PLAN THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH
THE APPLICATION OF THE ADDITION
AREA AND YOU COULD SEE THE THE
DRIVEWAY HERE AND THE DECK IS
RIGHT HERE AND THEN YOU HAVE
THE LIVING AREA INSIDE THE
OF WITHIN THE AREA OF THE FLAT
ROOF ADDITION THESE ARE THE
PHOTOS THAT I TOOK AT MY
INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY.
YOU SEE THE FRONT OF THE HOME
FROM PAULENE.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN 5TH TO THE
NORTH AND YOU SEE THE SIDE OUT
OF THE OF THE FRONT STEP BACK
OF THE PROPERTY ALONG THE SIDE
OF THE HOME.
THIS IS A PICTURE OF THE
EXISTING GABLE GARAGE AND ON
THE FLAT ROOF EDITION IS IN THE
BACK AND THAT'S JUST A LITTLE
BIT BETTER PHOTO OF THE OF THE
TWO OF THE ONE STRUCTURE.
BUT THE THE THE ADDITIONS TO
THE SIDE OF THE GARAGE THIS IS
THE DECK THAT IS ENCROACHING IN
THE FRONT.
THAT BACK IS EXISTS.
THIS IS THE RELATIONSHIP ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY, THE
NORTH SIDE ADDITION THE GARAGE
YOU SEE THE NEIGHBOR'S FENCE OR
AND THEN THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE TWO PROPERTIES IN
THE PROXIMITY OF THE HOUSE
ADJACENT PROPERTY TO THE NORTH
IN THE KIND IN THE BACKGROUND
THERE THESE ARE SOME PHOTOS I
TOOK THE OWNERS AND I MET AND
THEY SHOW ME THE INTERIOR SPACE
JUST TO GET A LITTLE
PERSPECTIVE ON CURRENTLY LOOKS
LIKE AND HOW IT'S BEEN FINISHED
AND THIS THE REAR OF THE
PRINCIPAL DWELLING THE HOME AND
THEN LET'S TURN AROUND LOOKING
AT THE SOUTH ELEVATION THE
GARAGE AND YOU SEE THE ENTRANCE
TO THE BACK OF THE DWELLING IN
THE FLAT ROOF.
>> THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
YES.
GRAYSMITH SO THERE'S NO CHANGES
BEING MADE TO THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE STRUCTURE.
THEY JUST NEED A VARIANCE TO
CONVERT IT TO HABITABLE SPACE
AND I UNDERSTAND THAT THAT'S
CORRECT.
>> AN EDU IS IN ORDER TO DO AN
ACCESSORY DWALIN IT'S REQUIRED
TO BE IN A CONFORMING STRUCTURE
AND SO IF THE VARIANCE ARE
APPROVED THAT WOULD MAKE THIS A
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
SO IS THE GARAGE CONFORMING AND
THE WAY THAT IT IS RIGHT NOW
WITH THE DECK WOULD KNOW THE
WHOLE STRUCTURE AND THE
STRUCTURE IS NOT CONFORMING?
CORRECT.
OK, THAT'S WHY THEY NEED THESE
VARIANCES.
BUT LIKE I SAID, IT WAS YOU
KNOW THE THE ADDITION WAS
PERMITTED IN NINETEEN SIXTY
SEVEN PRIOR TO THESE
REQUIREMENTS AND SO NOW THESE
REQUIREMENTS THEY DOESN'T MEET
THE REQUIREMENTS THE CURRENT
ORDINANCE AND SO IN ORDER TO
MAKE IF THEY WANT TO CONVERT
THIS TO NATY TO YOU AND GET IT
CERTIFIED WITH RENTAL HOUSING
DEPARTMENT THAT WOULD BE
REQUIRED TO GET THESE VERY
TONIGHT DAVE.
SO JOHN THE FLAT ROOF SECTION
WHICH WAS ADDED ON THAT WAS
DONE IN NINETEEN FIFTY SEVEN
NINETEEN SIXTY SEVEN SIXTY.
CORRECT AND THAT THAT I'VE MET
BUILDING THAT YEAH YES.
THEY RECEIVED A BUILDING PERMIT
FROM OUR DEPARTMENT EVEN AT
THAT SIDE SAT BACK I MEAN IT'S
ONLY TWO INCHES.
YEAH THERE WASN'T A THERE
WASN'T A SITE PLAN SUBMITTED
BACK THEN.
IT WAS THERE IS WASN'T EVEN A
BUILDING PERMIT AND NO IT WAS
BASICALLY AN INDEX CARD SO I
HAVE TWO QUESTIONS JOHN.
YES.
I'M A LITTLE CONFUSED ABOUT THE
TIMELINE.
FIRST OF ALL, MY FIRST QUESTION
IS ARE WE BEING PRESENTED WITH
A FAIT ACCOMPLI?
THE CONSTRUCTION IS ALREADY
DONE, CORRECT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
OKAY.
>> MY SECOND QUESTION IS WHY
ISN'T THIS SIMPLY AN ALTERATION
TO A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE IF
YOU'RE TAKING THE EXISTING
INTERIOR SPACE AND ADDING SOME
FURNITURE AND CONVERTING IT TO
AN EIGHTY BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE
AN ALTERATION AND WOULD NOT
MAKE THIS A CONFORMING
STRUCTURE, THE ONLY THE
VARIANCES WILL
MAKE IT
CONFORMING.
OK, I GUESS THEY DO HAVE A
THIRD QUESTION JUST TO CONFIRM
I THINK THE APPLICANT SAID THAT
THE PROPERTY WAS IN HIS CURRENT
STATE WHEN THEY PURCHASED IT.
>> IS THAT TRUE?
ACCORDING TO MY CONVERSATION
WITH THE APPLICANT, YES.
BUT YOU MIGHT WANT TO ASK THEM
AS WELL.
OK, INTERESTING.
ALL RIGHT.
SO GO AHEAD, DAVE.
>> ONE MORE QUESTION.
SO THE 35 PERCENT AREA DOES
THAT COUNT TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
THE SPACE BETWEEN THE GARAGE IN
THE HOME KNOW THE THIRTY FIVE
PERCENT IS THE REAR SET BACK
AREA WHICH IS THE WIDTH OF THE
REAR LOT LINE TIMES UP BY
TWENTY FEET WHICH IS THE SET
BACK.
SO ANY STRUCTURE FROM THAT 20
FOOT SET BACK TOWARDS THE REAR
OF THE HOME I'LL SHOW YOU MY
WITH MY CURSOR ON THE SCREEN.
SO FROM THAT DASHED LINE TO THE
HOME THAT AREA IS NOT COUNTED.
IT'S THIS SECTION RIGHT HERE
THAT YOU CAN'T EXCEED THIRTY
FIVE PERCENT WITH THE STRUCTURE
.
THAT'S HOW IT'S DETERMINED IN
THE SECTION IN THE CODE .
>> SO IT'S KIND OF WEIRD.
IT'S CALLED YOUR BACK AREA.
I KNOW THIS IS ALREADY BUILT
BUT HYPOTHETICALLY IF IT
WEREN'T IN THEY WERE COMING TO
US TO BUILD IT.
IF THEY PUT THE THIS HASHED
AREA THE FLAT ROOF AREA BETWEEN
ATTACHED TO THE GARAGE BUT
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE
GARAGE INSTEAD AWAY FROM THE
HOUSE ON THE SOUTH SIDE.
>> YEAH.
WOULD THEY NEED IT.
>> THEY WOULD NOT BUT LIKE I
SAID, THIS WASN'T PART OF THE
ORDINANCE IN NINETEEN SIXTY
SEVEN I UNDERSTOOD.
>> RIGHT SO IS THERE A REASON
WHY THE 80S ARE REQUIRED TO BE
IN A CONFORMING STRUCTURE LIKE
I'M JUST KIND OF WONDERING WHY
THAT'S THE CASE AND SINCE THIS
IS AN EXISTING STRUCTURE THAT'S
ALREADY THERE, WHY IS IT JUST
SO YOU ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY
THAT WAS ADOPTED IN TWO
THOUSAND TO EIGHTEEN AND SO
GENERALLY ALL OF THEM ARE MOST
OF THEM ARE OUR NEW STRUCTURES.
AND SO WHEN YOU BUILD A NEW
STRUCTURE THAT WE CONFORM AND
IF THEY ARE GOING TO BE IN A
NOT CONFORMING STRUCTURE, THEY
EITHER HAVE TO MAKE THEM
CONFORMING BY POSSIBLY
DEMOLITION OR SOME TYPE
OF ALTERATION TO THE STRUCTURE
OR COME TO THE BOARD AND SEEK A
VARIANCE STANDARD AND THE OTHER
QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
I GUESS WE'RE DONE WOULD NOW
LIKE TO HEAR FROM THE APPLICANT
MR AND OR MRS
YOU NEED TO SIGN
IN HERE.
>> YES PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
AND SIGN IN PLEASE.
>> SURE.
DON THOMAS AND MY WIFE IS PAULA
THOMAS
.
THE APPEAL NUMBER IN THERE WAS
A QUESTION REGARDING THE
PROPERTY THAT WAS EXISTING AS
IT IS WHEN WE PURCHASED IT.
THE ANSWER IS YES.
I THINK THAT WAS SURESCRIPTS.
I REALLY DON'T HAVE ANYTHING
MORE TO ADD TO THE APPEAL JOHN
COVERED EVERYTHING.
I THINK THE PRIMARY FACTOR IS
THAT IT WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
NINETEEN SIXTY SIXTY SEVEN AND
WE DON'T INTEND TO EXPAND IT OR
DO ANYTHING OF THAT NATURE.
SO IT IS WHAT IT IS AND IT DOES
FROM YOU COULD SEE FROM THE
PICTURES IT DOES THE PROXIMITY
TO CAMPUS IN THE ARRANGEMENT IN
THE AMENITIES THAT ARE IN THAT
WHICH IS THE BATHROOM, A SHOWER
KITCHEN AREA AND THE LIVING
ROOM REALLY WOULD BE IDEAL FOR
AN 80 OR SO.
ANY QUESTIONS, MR THOMAS?
>> DAVID SO MR THOMAS, IS THIS
INTENDED TO BE A RENTAL UNIT
YET IT WE HAD NOT INTENDED TO
RENT IT AT THE TIME WE
PURCHASED THE HOUSE WE WERE
GOING TO HAVE A RELATIVE LIVING
THERE AND THAT THOSE
CIRCUMSTANCES HAVE CHANGED AND
IN FACT WE'RE HAVING TO SELL
THE PROPERTY BUT SINCE WE
STARTED IT BACK IN I THINK JULY
AND WE HAD THE BOUNDARY SERVICE
AND OUR SURVEYING PLACE WE WE
JUST DECIDED TO GO AHEAD AND
FINISH IT WHICH THIS PART OF IT
SO IF IT IS A RENTAL UNIT, WHAT
WOULD IT BE A SHORT TERM RENTAL
OR LIKE INHERITANCE?
I THINK IT WOULD BE A HABITABLE
SPACE FOR WHATEVER PERIOD
OF TIME SOMEBODY IT WE AS WE
UNDERSTAND IT CAN'T BE USED FOR
AIRBNB SHORT TERM NOW OUR
MINIMUM OF THIRTY DAYS NOW ADD
TO THAT AIDES CANNOT BE RUN FOR
LESS THAN THIRTY THIRTY DAYS
AND HAVE YOU WORKED WITH
ANYBODY FAMILIAR WITH THE
HOUSING CODES FOR RENTAL
HOUSING.
WE ARE FAMILIAR WITH SOME
OF THE CODE BUT IT WASN'T
SOMETHING WE HAD LOOKED INTO
BECAUSE WE WERE IT WAS GOING TO
BE A FAMILY MEMBER AND WE
WEREN'T GOING TO BE RUNNING IT
WELL, I'D ADVISE YOU ON THE
BEDROOM.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT BEDROOM
WILL COMPLY WITH THE HOUSING
CODE BECAUSE OF ITS SIZE.
I'M ASSUMING THERE'S A CLOSET
IN THERE WHICH WILL HAVE TO
HAVE BUT THERE'S ALSO A SIZE
ISSUE.
OK, BUT THAT'S FOR YOU GOING
FORWARD IF YOU GET THIS
APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
I DO HAVE A QUESTION, MR THOMAS
.
>> YES.
SO JUST TO CLARIFY WHAT I
THOUGHT YOU SAID THE SENSE IS
YOU'RE CLEARING THIS UP SO TO
SPEAK BECAUSE YOU INTEND TO
SELL THE PROPERTY, IS THAT
CORRECT?
WE ARE SELLING OUR PROPERTY OK?
YES.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS RIGHT.
>> IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE IN THE
ROOM THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AND THIS ISSUE?
ALL RIGHT.
IS ARE THERE ANY CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO CALLERS RIGHT.
>> I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT
WE DO HAVE ONE LETTER IN
SUPPORT.
YOU PROBABLY KNOW ABOUT THIS,
MR THOMAS FROM YOUR NEIGHBORS
LISA ROAD AND LARRY BUTLER.
>> YES.
BUT ACTUALLY ONE OF THE
PACKAGES FROM JIM LEWIS.
GOOD.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, JIM.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH YOU AT THE PUBLIC MEETING
IS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU, SIR.
YES, I JUST WANT TO SAY I
SUPPORT THIS AND I THINK IT'S
VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD AND I
THINK THE THE WAY THIS
ORDINANCES IS WRITTEN THAT WAY
IT SEEMS KIND OF SILLY TO ME
THAT THE CITY IS REALLY FOCUSED
ON TRYING TO INCREASE HOUSING
AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR HOUSING
AND THIS JUST SEEMS LIKE A KIND
OF UNNECESSARY BARRIER FOR
PEOPLE.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
SOMETHING STAFF CAN CONSIDER
BUT I JUST WANT CHRIS A SECOND
LOOK.
GRACE SAID.
SO I THINK WE AS A CITY ARE
ORIENTED CREATED A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE WAS ONE
AND SINCE SINCE I HAVE AN
AUDIENCE HERE WITH A MEMBER
OF OUR CITY COUNCIL AND
MULTIPLE STAFF MEMBERS UM YOU
DON'T HAVE TO MAKE VERY
SWEEPING CHANGES TO THE
ORDINANCE TO GET MORE HOUSING
UNITS RIGHT.
>> YOU JUST LITTLE CHANGES CAN
MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE AND I
THINK THIS IS A REALLY GOOD
EXAMPLE.
IT WOULDN'T TAKE MUCH STAFF
TIME WOULDN'T TAKE MUCH
CONVERSATION TO JUST ADD A
SMALL PROVISION TO THAT
ORDINANCE TO JUST SAY CERTAIN.
WE'RE ALL NONEXISTING
STRUCTURES CAN BE CONVERTED TO
THIS.
IT'S A HOME.
IT'S A HOME WITH DIRECT ACCESS
TO GREEN SPACE.
IT'S A HOME THAT'S RIGHT ON A
BUS LINE AND THESE YOU KNOW,
THIS COUPLE HAS TO SPEND
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO GET A
SURVEY AND COME GET A VARIANCE
FOR SOMETHING THAT THAT SHOULD
JUST BE APPROVED BY.
RIGHT.
IN MY OPINION IT DOESN'T WE
DON'T NEED SWEEPING CHANGES TO
A MASTER PLAN.
WE DON'T HAVE TO DO ALL THIS
STUFF.
WE CAN GET MORE HOMES WITH
SMALL CHANGES IF WE WANT AND I
DON'T THINK IT WOULD TAKE MANY
RESOURCES.
SO ANYWAYS, THE SECOND ONE
GRACER ANYONE ELSE?
>> WELL, I GUESS WE NEED
EMOTIONAL I I'M SOMEWHAT
TROUBLED BY THIS.
>> IT'S SOMETHING I'D LIKE TO
VOTE FOR BUT I ALSO LOOKING AT
OUR VARIANCE REQUIREMENTS I
JUST DON'T SEE HOW REALLY MEETS
ANY OF THEM.
THESE FIVE STANDARDS FOR ME
ESPECIALLY CHRIS YOU YOU'RE A
STICKLER ON THIS IF YOU COULD
JUST PICK ONE OF THOSE THAT IT
MEETS IT WOULD HELP ME TO VOTE
FOR THIS WHICH I'D LIKE TO DO.
BUT IF IT DOESN'T MEET AT LEAST
ONE OF THEM, I DON'T THINK I
CAN VOTE FOR IT.
MAYBE YOU COULD HELP ME OUT OR
I WELL, NUMBER FOUR, IT WAS NOT
SELF-IMPOSED.
>> THEY BROUGHT THE PROPERTY
LIKE THIS WELL AND AND JOHN
SAID IT WAS APPROVED BY THE
CITY AND NUMBER THREE, I THINK
THERE'S SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE
GIVEN THAT TO USE OUR O'CARROLL
I MEAN THERE ARE SOMETHING THE
CITY WANTS
SO I GUESS I IT'S A
LITTLE STRETCH I THINK I SEE I
SEE I SEE NO3.
YES.
I'D BE PREPARED TO MAKE A
MOTION IF PEOPLE ARE OKAY WITH
THAT.
>> GO AHEAD ZEBA TWENTY THREE
DASH THEROS ZERO TWO ONE 700
PAULENE BOULEVARD BASED ON
FINDINGS AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL SPECIFICALLY ALLOWING
THE VARIANCE WILL RESULT IN
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING DONE
CONSIDERING THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE THE
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES THAT
WILL BE SUFFERED BY A FAILURE
TO GRANT A VARIANCE IN THE
RIGHTS OF OTHERS WHOSE PROPERTY
WOULD BE AFFECTED BY ALLOWING
THE VARIANCE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS A TWO INCH
VARIANCE FOR THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF THE GARAGE AND A TWO
HUNDRED NINETY SQUARE FOOT
VARIANCE FROM THE ALLOWABLE
THIRTY FIVE PERCENT REAR
SETBACK AREA.
BOTH VARIANCES APPLY TO SECTION
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX
SUBSECTION TWO SUBSECTION D
ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES A
THIRD VARIANCE OF TEN FEET FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH
ONE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT IS GRANTED AS WELL TO
ALLOW AN EXISTING DECK TO
ENCROACH INTO THE REQUIRED
FRONT SET BACK THE GARAGE
ADDITION IS TO REMAIN IN ITS
CURRENT CONFIGURATION WITH NO
FURTHER CHANGES OR ALTERATIONS
TO THE EXTERIOR OF THE
STRUCTURE.
IS THERE SUPPORT AND SECOND AND
GOOD GRACE OR READY TO VOTE?
HERE WE GO.
SO MIKE DANIEL YES DAVE
DIVERTED TO VAHEDI YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES CHRIS YES GRACE
YES DERMO YES.
AND SO DIRECTOR YES IT CARRY IT
CARRIES ONE FOR THIS DENHA AND
CHRISTINA I'M SORRY.
YES I FEEL THE COUNTY SORRY
ABOUT THAT.
SO IT'S UNANIMOUS YOUR VARIANCE
REQUESTS ARE PROOFS OR LIKE YOU
ARE
ALL RIGHT MOVING ON
PETITIONS EBAY TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO THREE FOUR
SIXTEEN LONG SHORE DRIVE AS I
MENTIONED THIS WAS WITHDRAWN.
BUT IF THERE'S ANYONE THAT
WANTS TO SPEAK ON THIS PETITION
NOW'S THE TIME
.
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS?
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PETITION QUBA TWENTY THREE DASH
ZERO ZERO TWO FOUR ONE ZERO
THREE THREE EAST UNIVERSITY
AVENUE JOHN ROB FOWLER ROBERT
IS REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY IS
SEEKING APPROVAL FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
SUBSECTION C ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE APPLICANTS ARE REQUESTING
TO CONVERT THE BASEMENT INTO A
FOUR BEDROOM UNIT AND TO
ENCLOSE THE EXISTING FRONT
PORCH TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL
LIVING SPACE FOR THE FIRST
FLOOR UNIT.
THE ROOF WILL BE ALTERED BY THE
ADDITION OF THREE NEW GABLES IN
A HEIGHT INCREASE FOR THE THIRD
FLOOR UNIT.
THE EXISTING FOUR UNIT RENTAL
PROPERTY CAN CONTAINS EIGHT
BEDROOMS.
THE ALTERATIONS WILL INCREASE
THE NUMBER OF BEDROOMS TO
SEVENTEEN WHILE THE NUMBER
OF UNITS REMAIN AT FOUR THE
PROPERTY IS OWNED OUR FORESEE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT AND NONCONFORMING
FALLOT AREA AND THE REAR YARD
SETBACK.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF EAST
UNIVERSITY PROSPECT STREET.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN
APPROXIMATELY NINETEEN ON ONE
AND IS TWO THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY SQUARE FEET IN SIZE
.
THE EXISTING RENTAL PROPERTY
CONTAINS FOUR UNITS TO OUR
EFFICIENCIES AND THE OTHER TWO
ARE ONE BEDROOM WITH A MAXIMUM
OCCUPANCY OF SIX PERSONS.
THE PROPOSED CHANGES WILL
INCREASE THE FIRST FLOOR UNIT
TO SIX BEDROOMS, THE SECOND
FLOOR UNIT TO FIVE BEDROOMS,
THE THIRD FLOOR UNIT TO TWO
BEDROOMS AND THE NEW BASEMENT
UNIT WILL CONTAIN FOUR
BEDROOMS.
THE ONLY EXTERIOR CHANGES WILL
BE MADE TO THE EXISTING ROOF
LINE.
THERE ARE NO CHANGES BEING MADE
TO THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
BUILDING AND THE PARKING LOT
WILL WILL REMAIN IN THE SAME
CONFIGURATION.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITOR'S YOU SEE THE
FIRST SLIDE THE ZONING MAP YOU
SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL IN
DALLAS AT THE CENTER OF THE MAP
THAT THE INTERSECT EAST
UNIVERSITY IN PROSPECT STREET
THE SECOND THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE AERIAL MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
CURRENT CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL
PHOTO OF THE SELECTED PROPERTY
.
LIKE I SAID, IT DOESN'T MEET
THE REQUIRED LOT AREA OR THE 30
FOOT REAR SETBACK FOR THE FOR
THE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION THE THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS THE NEW FIRST FLOOR
CONFIGURATION AND LIKE I SAID,
IT'S GOING TO HAVE SIX BEDROOMS
ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS THE NEW SECOND FLOOR
RENOVATION WITH A FIVE BEDROOM
UNIT.
>> THE NEW THIRD FLOOR
RENOVATION WILL CONTAIN TWO
BEDROOMS AND THE NEW BASEMENT
WILL CONTAIN FIVE BEDROOMS
EXCUSE ME FOUR BEDROOMS.
>> THE NEXT SLIDES ARE THE
ELEVATIONS THAT WERE SUBMITTED
WITH THE APPLICATION.
YOU SEE THIS FROM THE THE S
ELEVATION.
THIS IS FROM PROSPECT STREET,
THE NEW NORTH ELEVATION THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE HOME AND YOU
SEE THE ROOFLINE THE PROPOSED
ROOFLINE CHANGES.
THESE ARE THE NEW EAST AND WEST
ELEVATIONS.
THE WEST ONE IS LOOKING
DIRECTLY AT IT FROM PROSPECT
AND EAST UNIVERSITY RIGHT AT
THE INTERSECTION AND THE EAST
ELEVATION IS THE BACK OF THE
HOME FROM THE PARKING.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK OF THE PROPERTY WHEN I WAS
AT THE SITE.
YOU SEE THE FRONT OF THE HOME
AND THE PORCH THAT IS BEING
PROPOSED TO BE ENCLOSED WITH
THE NEW HABITABLE SPACE FOR THE
FIRST FLOOR UNIT.
THIS IS THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE
DRIVEWAY OUT TOWARDS PROSPECT
STREET EXCUSE ME EAST
UNIVERSITY AND THIS IS THE
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES AND THIS
THIS IS THE PARKING LOT AND THE
RELATIONSHIP TO THE NEIGHBORS
TO THE EAST.
JUST ANOTHER PICTURE OF THE
PROPERTY FROM PROSPECT STREET
IN THE BACK OF IT IN THE SIDE
THIS IS PART OF THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE PORCH THAT'S BEEN
PROPOSED TO BE ENCLOSED AND
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY FROM
THE CORNER OF THE INTERSECTION
OF THE STREET AT THE PROPERTY
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION
AND I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
>> THANKS, JOHN.
QUESTIONS CHIEF.
I'VE GOT A QUESTION ABOUT THE
INCLOSING A FRONT PORCH.
I KNOW THE CITY HAS ADJUSTED
ITS GIVING US MORE LEEWAY FOR
APPROVING FRONT PORCHES, BUT IF
THE FRONT PORCH DOES THIS FRONT
PORCH GO IN, WOULD IT BE INTO
AN EXISTING SET BACK THE WAY IT
IS NOW?
NO.
SO IF THIS WERE IF IT CAME
BEFORE US TODAY TO ADD TO THE
FRONT THIS IT WOULD ALL BE
WITHIN THE SETBACK REQUIREMENT
SO THAT YOU COULD ADD TO THE
FRONT OF IT WITH A FRONT PORCH
BUT YOU CAN'T ADD TO IT WITH
HABITABLE SPACE SO IT MEETS THE
FRONT AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK
THE HOUSE RIGHT NOW SO THEY CAN
ENCLOSE IT BUT THEY THEY'RE NOT
THEY'RE NOT PROPOSING ANY FRONT
PORCH TO IT.
OK, BUT THIS FRONT PORCH HAD
BECOME HABITABLE SPACE.
CORRECT.
IS THE FRONT PORCH WITH IN THE
BACK?
NO, IT MEETS THE AVERAGE FRONT
SET BACK RIGHT NOW.
IF IT DID NOT THEN THEY WOULD
HAVE TO GET A VARIANCE TO
ENCLOSE THAT FRONT PORCH.
IT MEETS THE AVERAGE FRONT SET
BACK.
THEY CAN ENCLOSE IT.
NO REQUIREMENT SAYS YOU HAVE TO
HAVE A FRONT PORCH AND IN FACT
THEY COULD BUILD ABOVE IT AS
WELL.
RIGHT.
THEY COULD GO STRAIGHT UP.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
YEAH.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
JOHN?
RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE IF
YOU'D LIKE TO COME FORWARD,
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD SIGN AND YOU'LL HAVE
FIVE MINUTES.
>> YES.
MY NAME IS ROB FOWLER.
I'M REPRESENTING TEN THREE
THREE.
YES YOU WERE
RIGHT IN THE
MIDDLE OF STUDENT HOUSE EVEN
DOWN THERE IT'S A NICE IT'S A
BIG HOUSE IS THE BIG LOT.
THERE'S PARKING BUT THERE'S
JUST NO DENSITY TO THAT
BUILDING AND WE FEEL WE CAN
ORGANIZE IT BETTER MAKE IT
BETTER.
WE'RE STILL KEEPING THE
EXISTING EXTERIOR WALLS AND THE
FRONT ROOFLINE SO IT'S NOT A
TEAR DOWN REBUILD.
IT'S WHERE WE ARE ALTERING THE
EXISTING BUILDING.
THAT'S ABOUT THE GIST OF IT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER
DAVE.
>> SO MR. FOWLER, THE I GREW UP
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD ALBEIT ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF PACKARD AND A
LOT OF THESE PORCHES THAT
PREEXISTED EXISTED GOING BACK
TO WHEN I WAS GROWING UP IN THE
FIFTIES, SIXTIES AND WELL 50S
AND 60S DON'T REALLY HAVE
FOOTING ADEQUATE FOOTINGS OR
FOUNDATION.
SO IF YOU'RE EXTENDING INTO
HABITABLE SPACE AWAITING FULL
BASEMENT I DON'T THINK SO
THAT'S GOING TO COME OFF AND
YOU'RE GOING TO EXCAVATE AND
ADD BASEMENT SPACE IN ADDITION
AND THEN THAT THE RETURN ON THE
PROSPECT SIDE THAT WILL REMAIN
PORT.
SO THEY HAVE GOT TO GET IT.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER
?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, I DON'T SEE
ANYONE HERE IN PERSON.
SO IF THERE'S ANYONE WHO IS
VIEWING OR ACCESSING A MEETING
REMOTELY, PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND PRESS
NINE IF YOU'VE CALLED IN OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FUNCTION IF
YOU'RE ACCESSING VIA THE WEB
LINK.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS, MADAM
CHAIR.
THANK YOU HANK WITH THAT SAID,
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION OR
MAYBE WE'RE READY FOR MOTION
DAD .
>> YEAH, I THINK WE'RE ALL
THINKING THE SAME THING.
USE THE ADMINISTRATION FOR MR.
OBAMA.
I'LL MAKE A MOTION BUT I I'LL
ALSO MAKE A COMMENT.
THEY'RE NOT ADDING TO THE
EXTERIOR.
THEY'RE ADDING A SIGNIFICANT
NUMBER OF BEDROOMS.
I STILL HAVE I KNOW THE CITY IN
ITS WISDOM INFINITE WISDOM IS
MAKING IT EASIER TO DO BEDROOMS
LIKE INCREASE THE NUMBER
OF UNITS AND THE NUMBER OF BEDS
WITHOUT AT THE SAME TIME
THEY'RE DIMINISHING PARKING
STANDARDS AND I HAVE A LOT
OF TROUBLE WITH THAT PERSONALLY
BECAUSE I UNDERSTAND AND I LIVE
IN THIS AREA STILL NOT AS CLOSE
AS I USED TO BECAUSE I GREW UP
AND PARKING IS A HUGE, HUGE
ISSUE IN THIS AREA AND I KNOW
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT BELIEVE
PRETTY SOON CARS WILL GO AWAY
AND WE WON'T HAVE THEM AND
EVERYBODY WILL BE RIDING BIKES
ON THE NEW BIKE LANES.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN FOR ANOTHER 15 OR 20
YEARS IF THEN AND I JUST WANT
TO PUT THAT OUT THERE I'M GOING
TO VOTE FOR US.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD THING TO
INCREASE DENSITY.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME I URGE
ANYBODY PROVIDING HOUSING AND I
AM A SMALL TIME LANDLORD MYSELF
TO THINK ABOUT PARKING ISSUES
AS WELL AND PEOPLE THINK THAT
THE STUDENTS COMING INTO TOWN
DON'T HAVE CARS.
WELL, I THINK THEY'RE DREAMING
IF THEY THINK THAT'S THE DREAM.
YEAH, BUT I SAID AS I'M SURE
YOU'RE PROBABLY AWARE AND
CERTAINLY THERE IS GOING TO BE
SPACE HERE TO HAVE SOME PARKING
BUT YOUR SIGNIFICANT INCREASE
IN THE NUMBER OF UNITS WHICH I
SUPPORT SO I'LL MAKE THE
MOTION.
THANK YOU DAVE ZEBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO FOUR
TEN THIRTY THREE EAST
UNIVERSITY AVENUE ALTERATION
WOULD NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
THE BASEMENT TO BE CONVERTED TO
A FOUR BEDROOM UNIT AND TO
ENCLOSE THE EXISTING FRONT
PORCH TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL
LIVING SPACE FOR THE FIRST
FLOOR UNIT.
THE ROOF LINE WILL BE ALTERED
BY THE ADDITION OF THREE NEW
GABLES AND A HEIGHT INCREASE.
THE NUMBER OF UNITS FOR THE
PROPERTY ARE TO REMAIN AT FOR
THE INTERIOR ALTERATION IS TO
BE CONSTRUCTED PER THE
SUBMITTED PLANS HAVE A MOTION
TO SIMPLY SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRIS MIKE.
YES DAVE DAVE ALREADY?
>> YES.
CHRISTINA YES.
TODD YES.
CHRIS YES.
GRACE YES.
ALSO YES DERMO YES.
SIDRAH YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING.
OH THANKS DAD .
MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS WE HAVE NO NEW
BUSINESS.
WE HAVE ADDRESSED
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE HAVE ADDRESSED I DON'T KNOW
THAT WE HAD ANY ADDITIONAL
COMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC COMMENT
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK TO
THE QUBA ON ANYTHING AT ALL,
PLEASE CALL IN NOW OR IF YOU'RE
ACCESSING VIA THE WEBLINK PRESS
STAR TO RAISE YOUR HAND.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS, JAKE WITH THAT DO I
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN?
THANK YOU, CHRIS SUPPORT.
THANK YOU, GRACE.
ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYBODY.
OVER.
NO